Hello everyone and welcome back to week
three. Um in this week we will start
some of the implementation that we
discussed um in week 2. We will load
open weights LLMs from hugging face. We
will generate predictions. We will
fine-tune them and we'll do some kind of
comparisons between uh different
scenarios. So before we do this let me
first introduce you to the data set that
we'll be using. So throughout this
program we'll be working with the
Samsung data set uh on hugging face and
this is a summarization data set. So the
task is the following. given some
dialogue between two or more people. Um
your task is to summarize um this
dialogue and um this is a very easy task
for LLMs in general. So um the samples
look like this. Some of them are short,
some of them are a little bit long. But
you can see that the style of the u
summarizations is very short. So uh this
is the style of this data set. So we are
expected that when we fine-tune um the
model on this data set at the very end
you should get some um some responses
that look like this. So uh if your LLM
originally tends to output a lot of
tokens after fine-tuning uh the behavior
should change and uh it should favor
shorter responses.
Okay. So um the code that we'll be
discussing here is available uh at the
github repo. uh you will find that there
are uh the code directory. This one
contains um all the code that we'll be
discussing throughout this week in
Python files and uh I think Python files
are better than notebooks just because
uh you can uh organize things uh a bit
more uh you can run them on whatever
kind of machine on the cloud or uh even
locally whereas notebooks are uh quite
tricky but I think they are useful for
uh education. So we will be having again
a notebooks directory. Uh this one
replicates whatever is in the code
directory but uh it's going to be in
terms of notebooks. So for this lesson
we'll be we will be working with a
Jupyter notebook. Um but you should know
that this code uh is here as a notebook
and it's also here as a Python file. So
um feel free uh to check both of them.
It's the same code but let's do notebook
this time because we want to run this on
collab and uh later in this program we
will show um other ways in which we can
uh run Python files.
Okay. So we'll start this week by
running a simple evaluation
um on a base model. So what we'll do is
we will download the llama 1B from
hugging face. we will use it as it is um
on the data set that I that I just
showed and uh we will compute some
metrics and we will look at uh some of
the responses of the model without any
fine-tuning. We are doing this because
in the future we will fine-tune the
model and we want to be able to compare
uh the behavior of the model before and
after fine-tuning. So uh for this one
we'll be just generating predictions. So
um what we need to do um is or before
anything let me just um show you how to
uh run this on collab. So what you would
need to do is go to the repo and grab
this notebook. Uh this is what you will
use on collab and um you will need the
config file there. So you can just
upload it. So if you look at my setup uh
initially it's going to be uh like this.
So these these files are actually uh the
results of running the notebook.
However, I don't want to delete them
because I don't want to run the notebook
again. But all you need is this um
config.tml. Everything else is going to
be created automatically.
So before we start, let's take a look at
the configuration file and understand
what are we doing with this. So um this
is a file that contains um all the
things that you'll be using throughout
this notebook uh in a way that makes it
very easy to um change like the model
for example or the data set. So here
we're defining the model that we'll be
working with uh which is llama 1B uh for
both model and tokenizer. So if you
suddenly decided to work with another
model, you don't need to change anything
in the notebook. All you need to do is
come here and um replace the model name
with another model. Same here. This is
the data set that you'll be working
with. You can uh change it. Um however,
this data set actually comes with um
train validation and test. you might run
into some challenges if one of these are
not there. Uh in this case, you will
need to modify the code a bit. But this
code works well. Uh if this data if this
if the data set has um uh multiple
splits or the three splits. So here
we're saying that we have train
validation and test. We want to use the
entire training set. From the validation
and test, we will only be working with
200 samples just to make things uh
faster. So originally validation and
test both have uh approximately 800. Uh
however we will be not using the full um
the full sets because it just takes a
lot of time to run it. So in this case
we are restricting ourselves uh to 200.
Some other parameters are for u
different lessons here and uh some of
them are for lura and qura. So you can
find all the configuration here.
whatever you need to change the
hyperparameters and everything uh you
can just play with this uh configuration
and you don't need to u mess up with the
notebook a lot.
Okay, so let's start um we will start by
defining some helper methods um to help
us load the data set and load the model.
So I'm not going to go through uh this.
It's uh pretty straightforward. Just
take a look at it. Uh you'll find it
very easy to understand. So we're
basically loading in the model in the
tokenizer. So we are reading everything
from the configuration uh that I showed
you. We instantiate the model downloaded
um this the downloading the tokenizer
sorry uh setting up the padding token.
Don't forget to set it to be equal to
the EOS. And then the padding side um
it's usually left whenever you're doing
uh generation. So in this case we are
not fine-tuning. So we will keep it as
left and in most of the cases it's going
to be right whenever you are actually
training the LLM. Uh but here we're just
generating um answers so we will not be
doing any training so it's kept as left.
Keep in mind that this method is written
in a general way that handles loading
the base model as well as adding uh
lower adapters or uh quantization if you
want. So uh you control this by uh using
these um inputs. So uh using 4 bit if
you set that to true it means you want
to apply quantization and you can set
Laura to true in order to um add the
adapters. Uh however we will not be
using this for this uh video. So we will
set them both to false in order to load
the base model. But in future lessons we
will use the same code uh in order to
apply lura or quantization.
And then we are reading the uh
quantization and lura parameters. We
load the model and then uh yeah we apply
Lora uh using the parameters in the
configuration and then uh we want to
generate predictions on our data set. So
uh this is what this method is doing. It
constructs the uh user prompts. So we
put in some task instruction. We give it
the dialogue between the people and we
uh ask it for the summary and we create
a list of a lot of prompts. We loop on
these prompts in batches. Um and then we
uh return the predictions and for
evaluation we'll be using something
called the rouge scores. Uh it's a very
popular metric. Uh so it has multiple
variations rouge 1 2 L and uh what rouge
score basically is it it um it looks for
how many for example rouge one looks for
how many unigs appeared in the truth
summary and the predicted summary. for
uh rouge 2. It's going to look for
biograms uh and so on. So um feel free
to check the definition of of rouge.
It's a very popular metric and it's a
the higher the better. So you're trying
to maximize the uh rouge scores.
So as we said we call in this uh method
with uh without quantization without
Laura. So in this case we are just using
uh the base model but in future lessons
we will uh apply them and see how this
affects the performance.
So um now we call in all of these
methods uh we get our model and
tokenizer and now we start uh generating
predictions and um let's take a look at
the task instruction to see what we are
actually giving the model. So you can uh
take a look at the configuration and
then you scroll down there is this task
instruction. So we're saying you're a
helpful assistant who writes concise
summaries so on. So this is the first
thing that uh the model will see and
then we give it uh the dialogue and we
ask it for uh the summary. So this is
what this is and uh batch size of four.
Now we compute the root scores and we uh
save in uh these things. So after you
run this it's going to take u a while.
Oh, I think it took like oh two 2
minutes and 30 seconds for me. So after
this is done, you'll uh get the Rouge
scores and these numbers are okay. So
rouge is not something that uh you'd
expect to be 80% or 90%. Fact 35 is a
good number for Rouge one. Can get
better though. Um but keep in mind that
Rouge scores are not uh at the scales of
80s and 90s. And um these are the scores
for this model before any fine-tuning.
And after you run this, you'll see that
um these uh results actually get stored
in a JSON file. And then you have uh the
predictions themselves. So this is the
dialogue. Then if you uh scroll to the
right, you'll see uh the summary key or
the prediction key. So these are the
predictions uh on this data set. You can
see some of these predictions are
actually a bit long, maybe longer than
than usual because if if you check the
uh style of this data set, you can see
it's always very concise. So maybe after
we fine-tune the model, we can uh change
uh this behavior. So you'll have access
to all of these files um in the GitHub
repository anyway. But if you want to
run this notebook, just make sure to
upload it to Collab, upload the config
file, and then run the notebook.
everything else uh is going to be
created automatically for you. So um
that's it for this video. We have
evaluated the baseline without
fine-tuning. In future videos, we will
perform the actual fine-tuning and then
we will always come back to these
numbers and uh compare them and also uh
compare like the style uh of the
predictions uh and see if if it actually
changes uh in any way. So that's it for
this video. I hope you found that useful
and I'll see you in the next one.